To improve maintainability and simplify the code I propose you as we add new features you try to abstract & generalise existing code if it makes sense. So for each new feature assess whether it is best to build from scratch or revisit some old code to generalise it first (with some testing) and then use it again in the new feature. To facilitate this I am trying to give you a heads up on ALL the new features we will be adding so you can potentially build in anticipated reuse early.

Here is a detailed design roadmap for the next drops:


DMR v2.7 - Motion Tracker - Aliens and submarines!

Under Marker we have a Marker Sounds option with 3 options None, Sound Source, Listener (These correspond to the top right icons on the marker)
We want to duplicate this UI setup for motion:
New "Marker Motion" section with 3 options: None, Motion Source, Motion Tracker (These correspond to the bottom right icons on the marker - like sound has an ear for "listener" we need a radar type icon to indicate "motion tracker" which can be toggled on/off). i.e. it should function in exactly the same way as marker sounds - with controls off the icon and main UI.
Motion Source will provide a Max Range Circle (which can extend way beyond the map - so let it go huge) and a Muted switch to temporarily suppresses it. Instead of a sound selector it has a tracker view selector that lets the user pick from a drop down of a "single blob" or a "cluster of blobs"
Motion Tracker - like a listener there can only be one - 
When selected it will have a number of controls: a "muted" option (like Listener) and a range circle. 
The following sliders will be needed: 
  Tracker range - draws a circle to show the max range of the tracker to tweak it.
  Tracker rate - how often it sends out a ping
  Tracker speed - how long it takes the circle to hit the end of its range
  Show return blobs (default on) - whether the users get just audio queues (no blobs) or audio/visual queues (fading blob(s))
  Colour selector - selects a colour for the tracker circle and return blobs
  At the bottom it will have 2 "assign audio" boxes - labelled "outgoing ping" and "return ping" - these let you select an asset in the sound library for the tracker.
NB: all these settings are persisted so if a new tracker is selected all these properties are retained. i.e. these are setup once per map. On a new map we can default to the these too - minimises setup time.

When the tracker is enabled it plays the "outgoing ping" sound and a fuzzy/partially transparent concentric circle will fire on the GM and player map (subject to filters) centred on the tracker. As the circle expands, as it passes a motion source it plays a return ping sound. If "Return blobs" are enabled it will also show either a single or multi-blob pattern taking up the space defined in the markers icon size. These will then fade out slowly at the "tracker rate"... so by the time the next ping sounds they have faded completely.




DMR v2.8 - Asset Management Refresh

Okay I wanna switch things up a bit for saving, loading and storing assets to allow for easier offline play and onboarding.
Being able to only use FreeSound with an API key makes things awkward. 
Here is the new approach which we will unify across map loading and sounds.

Phase 1:
Use the current sound loader as the pattern to copy.
When you look at the "My Library" tab we add some tags: "URL", "API" & "Stored" (maybe Stored is Local - something that means the actual data file is in the IndexDB). These indicate where the sound was from and is stored
Freesound will generally be "API" tagged
A new top option is "Web Links" - in that it lets you paste in a comma/space/NL delimited URLs (these are URLs so easy to delimit). These are treated like an API link - they will be tested, cached locally, but retrieved at runtime. (Like Upload the attribution will be "unknown" but retain the link to the resource)
On the main Sound Library tab any "API" or "URL" have a button to "Store" locally. This will download a copy and KEEP it in the asset library. It will KEEP its URL/API tab but gain the "Stored" tag as well.
This means the sound file is saved with the other assets in the downloaded data file and they don't have to be retrieved at runtime. Make sure the  Attribution list is maintained properly.
Each API we integrate will have to have a property that says whether it CAN be downloaded - some future ones may stream only, so the "Store" button would never appear. But for Freesound we know we have the mp3 available for download. We want to be able to add new API loader easily. So the capability that drives the "Freesound Search" can be reused for other API connectors.

Phase 2:
Once we have this working as planned I would like to take exactly the same capability and apply it to "Map Selection".

At the moment we have "Maps" - what the user selects on the drop down and "Map Assets" which are the actual map files. This is currently a 1:1 relationship but we need to break that so it works like sound... where one "Map Asset" can be used across multiple "Maps"

The top drop down box will work as it does now - to swap between user maps.
Under that place a "Map Name" dialogue that lets the user change the name they see on the drop down list. Just Filenames (the underlying asset) can be awkward and you may want to use the same map several times.
Where it says "Delete Current Map" have "Clone Map" and "Delete Map" (Update Are you sure dialogue to use the user set Map name - the asset name is irrelevant as it will continue to exist).  (This is copied from the Marker logic). This will copy the map, all its sound effects, markers and other content and is duplicated with a "-copy" name. Obviously it doesn't DUPLICATE all the assets (a waste of space) - Assets are shared between maps.


Replace "Upload New Map" with "+ Add New Map" which opens up a dialogue fairly identical to the Add sound dialogue. In this case it will have 3 tabs: My Library (listing all current "map assets"), "Web Links" [URL tag] & "Upload" [Stored tag] (we don't have an API loader, yet - but may do in the future)
This means several things:
1. With a Weblink map can be dynamically loaded at start-up rather than be stored locally. When you start the app, these URLs will be dynamically loaded and cached - again missing ones are highlighted for the user and replaced with a "Missing Map File" bitmap. Just to preserve everything else and let them reinsert a new map file later. In this instance the Ui provides a new button above the "+ Add New Map" button called "Fix Missing Map" which lets the user open the usual add map dialogue and select something else from their asset library (after perhaps uploading a new map - much like how missing sound files work now). Yes, unless they find the right file all the markers, etc will be off, but they can fix them manually.
2. For URLs the same "Store" option is available which forces it to be downloaded and stored permanently in the IndexDB and added to save files (the URL is now just a reference/link and never used). The filename is used as normal BUT
3. A same Map asset can be used multiple times with totally different setups as different maps
4. A Map can be deleted from "My Library"; here but you must warn the user with a dialogue if the map asset is currently being used (potentially multiple times across multiple maps) and replace the map asset with the "Missing Map File" bitmap and if that map is selected from the drop down list can be fixed in the same way.
5. NB: The Preview will be there like the sound asset library... it is not actually clickable but on hover over will display a mini version of the map.
Keep an attribution list for Maps too - we will come back to that as they will all be unknown for now.

Phase 3:
Trash tracking. Any asset on any asset list which is NOT being used should be highlighted as such on My Library (subtly... perhaps an orange [!] or [*] - what this means is explained in the hover over), so the user knows they can actually delete them safely to save DB space.

Phase 4:
Fix asset attributions (Sounds and Maps)
Move attribution from under "Soundboard" to under "My Library". Add one for Map Assets too - works in eth same way.
Any unknown attributions can be edited: a standard licence drop down box (2 bottom options are "Permission Granted" and "Other" which assumes the URL will have the info), a "Link" (a clickable URL) and an "Attribution Name" can be entered which is stored as long as the asset is included.
At the bottom of teh attribution screen is a copyall button which copies all the acknowledgemenets into the clipboard fopr teh suer to paste into their dopcuemntation.. So it will have "Audio assets used in map pack:" and a "Map assets used in map pack:" 


DMR 2.9 - Scaled Maps, Projector Scaling & Player Projection View
New section called "Player Projection View" that looks and works like "Player View" it has a switch to "Enable Player View" at the top which turns on and off this capability entirely. 

Then underneath it has 4 buttons and a switch:
- Open Projector Window - works like "Open Player Window" and opens a view to a different viewport to the map with all filters/markers/FoW shown (NB: sound support is NOT needed as this is a local option and the GM will already be providing it off the main map)
- Edit Player Projection View - see below
- "Full Map"/"Scaled Map" Toggle - see below
- Calibrate Projector - see below
Finally at the bottom is a "Disable Filters" switch" - default off - this lets the GM remove visual filters for just the projection view

In addition map assets will have a new option to: "Calibrate" available on May Asset Library - Being able to add an optional scale to a map asset that defines "what a 5' square would look like". Effectively show the map and let the user pan/zoom the map under a fixed 5' square located in the middle of the screen; to any point on the map. That will be saved as its scale (we know how many pixels 5' is!)

The Calibrate projector will have a default "5' grid" that can be used as a "calibration map". The user can place a 5' square item on their physical gaming table and then use the controls to vertically and horizontally scale the calibration grid until it matches the size of the physical token.

Edit Player Projection View now works in exactly the same way as "Player View" except we have a Orange/white ant crawl (rather than orange black for player view) - obviously only show if this feature is enabled on this map. Because of the 2 scaling factors we now have it will always be a fixed size on the map as we can scale the map to the projector. The GM will still be able to pan the viewport but not scale it. The projector view will show the scaled viewport 



DMR 2.10 - Rebrand & Customisation
Rebrand - dynamic-map-renderer-v2 is a mouthful and not entirely right any more. Plan to rename it to something else. Open to suggestions!?!?
Introduce a hamburger menu on the GM screen for rarely accessed features & customisation options.
One aim for this app is for map creators to distribute their maps using it. So it would be good if we introduced a splash screen on startup that can be customised. The default one will be about ME, have links to resources and describe what the program does and include an image (i.e. what I setup and save to default-bundle.json). We can have a way to someone. This is saved in a maps file and when loaded will open the splash screen. So map builders can link to their Patreon and brand it to them. (of course I will keep a line at the bottom with my copyright info and links to the app/Discord)
It makes sense to be able to let the user select dark/light mode and have custom UI colours - the map side can stay "as-is but all the controls can have colour customisation that is saved in the map file too.
The initial splash box will open whenever the map pack is opened and when "About" is selected off the bottom of the hamburger menu
Finally have an option where the URL for this app can be called with a URL to a map pack. On start it will try and load that map pack rather than the default. If the user already has a populated local IndexDB (i.e. they have maps already) then it will instead put in a pop up to save their current map pack BEFORE loading the one from the URL. If they hit cancel they keep whatever they have already.


----- Here is where I want to get to - after this will be backlogged for a future point

DMR 2.11 - Audio Filters
On the soundboard & markers the user can add an audio filter for good old "Cave echo/concert hall/volume boost/telephone/random white noise" type filters to add immersive ambiance to the soundscape on a marker by marker or soundboard basis. Should be very similar to the Visual Filter but far simpler - as most would only need 2-3 sliders... extensible like filters/transitions.


DMR 2.12 - User identification/Labelling & Dice
Users that connect can name themselves - name persists on reconnection. Now the GM can now see the players connected.
New dice section under the GM UI. If enabled it activates dice functionality and the GM sets the dice that can be rolled (game system dependent) - perhaps build up a "game asset" library to store setups for each type of game system - the dice being the first part.
If the user or GM right clicks on their map they get a list of dice & dice sets they can roll.
A simple random number generator does the roll (Option: Some beautifully physically rendered polyhedral dice are thrown across the player view - real physics) - the total shown, fades out and the result sent to the GM who sees the player and their last few dice rolls under the Dice section - any newly rolled ones are highlighted with an effect. Hover over the result to shows the dice set rolled how long ago they were rolled (secs). The GM rolling dice is not reported to anyone but is tracked on the Dice roller like others.


DMR 2.13 - Player Marker Movement Rights
A connected player has permission to move a marker on the map but not change any of its properties (or see them) - they can just move the marker as it the GM had moved it. Of course the GM can always move every marker (except locked ones).


DMR 2.14 - Add new API or URL sources/ Potential VTT integration
Support community map efforts, creator map lists. Allow cross library searches for maps, etc. 
For Audio (Syrinscape)... maybe maps (work with map makers??)?



Other features suggested and could probably be rolled in to one of the above releases:
Player View Export - Be able to .webm screen capture a player view in "full resolution" to use elsewhere. Possible now with simple screen capture (already done by the transition engine). But to get "full resolution" it would need to capture off a "virtual screen" of the desired capture resolution. 

Do some docuemnt updates and recommendations on how to use in various environments. eg: mobile devices better as player views rather than GM views. Using across the internet (probably better using a proper VTT). This is more designed for local network type stuff.

Which leads to VTT integtation? i.e. use the local player screen as a source in the VTT (not sure how to do this - will need to look at the VTTs on teh market and speak to folks that use them - can you just send a "window" to the other players? (seems you can in stuff like Owlbear Rodeo)

This becomes a theologiocal debate :) I am not aiming to help VTT vendors sell their sofwtare - if they want to intgrate what I have done teh licence lets them do it. The direction I want to head is to support communbity efforts, individual creators and (hence freesound over Syrinscape, API , etc